README.md, before:

# prometheus-argus-glue

A service that receives alerts from Alertmanager (Prometheus) via webhooks and pushes events into Argus.

Some components and implementation is based off https://gitlab.sikt.no/cnaas/mist-argus

## production deployment

`gunicorn` is recommended for production deployment:
```
$ gunicorn --bind 127.0.0.1:5000 promargus.webhook:app
```
Debug logging from the app is available if gunicorn is called with
`--log-level=debug`.

## configuration

See `example_settings.py` for configuration params.

`ARGUS_SEVERITY_CONFIG` is a dictionary with keys being a key, value tuple of the alert label, and value being the severity level. If set it enables the glue service to determine incident severity based of the alert labels. e.g. `"labels": {"pagepolicy": "always"}` could be mapped to severity 1 (Critical) like this:
```
ARGUS_SEVERITY_CONFIG = {
    ("pagepolicy", "always"): 1,
}
```
Note that the service will set the severity based on the first match, so order matters. For example, an event has the labels `{"pagepolicy": "always"}` and `{"location": "WLG"}`, if `ARGUS_SEVERITY_CONFIG` is:
```
ARGUS_SEVERITY_CONFIG = {
    ("pagepolicy", "always"): 1,
    ("location", "WLG"): 3,
}
```
The severity will be 1, whereas:
```
ARGUS_SEVERITY_CONFIG = {
    ("location", "WLG"): 3,
    ("pagepolicy", "always"): 1,
}
```
The severity will be 3.

## developement/testing

Install conda env and activate:
```
$ make install
$ conda activate ./conda_env
```

Copy settings example and make changes:
```
$ cd promargus
$ cp example_settings.py local_settings.py
$ vi local_settings.py
```

Running dev server:
```
$ export PROM_ARGUS_SETTINGS=local_settings.py
$ python -m promargus.webhook
```

Format code:
```
$ black promargus
```

Lint:
```
$ flake8 promargus --max-line-length 88
```

Commit message:

bau: update README to include argus-sync

README.md, after:

# prometheus-argus-glue

A service that receives alerts from Alertmanager (Prometheus) via webhooks and pushes events into Argus.

Some components and implementation is based off https://gitlab.sikt.no/cnaas/mist-argus

## production deployment

`gunicorn` is recommended for production deployment:
```
$ gunicorn --bind 127.0.0.1:5000 promargus.webhook:app
```
Debug logging from the app is available if gunicorn is called with
`--log-level=debug`.

### utility scripts

**`argus-sync`**

Resolves incidents in Argus that don't have a matching alert in Alertmanager.
If a resolve notification is missed or not sent, it can leave incidents open
resulting in unnecessary work for users. One common reason for this is silenced
alerts in Alertmanager, as this also silences resolve notifications.

`argus-sync` uses the same settings file as the webhook.

## configuration

See `example_settings.py` for configuration params.

`ARGUS_SEVERITY_CONFIG` is a dictionary with keys being a key, value tuple of the alert label, and value being the severity level. If set it enables the glue service to determine incident severity based of the alert labels. e.g. `"labels": {"pagepolicy": "always"}` could be mapped to severity 1 (Critical) like this:
```
ARGUS_SEVERITY_CONFIG = {
    ("pagepolicy", "always"): 1,
}
```
Note that the service will set the severity based on the first match, so order matters. For example, an event has the labels `{"pagepolicy": "always"}` and `{"location": "WLG"}`, if `ARGUS_SEVERITY_CONFIG` is:
```
ARGUS_SEVERITY_CONFIG = {
    ("pagepolicy", "always"): 1,
    ("location", "WLG"): 3,
}
```
The severity will be 1, whereas:
```
ARGUS_SEVERITY_CONFIG = {
    ("location", "WLG"): 3,
    ("pagepolicy", "always"): 1,
}
```
The severity will be 3.

## developement/testing

Install conda env and activate:
```
$ make install
$ conda activate ./conda_env
```

Copy settings example and make changes:
```
$ cd promargus
$ cp example_settings.py local_settings.py
$ vi local_settings.py
```

Running dev server:
```
$ export PROM_ARGUS_SETTINGS=local_settings.py
$ python -m promargus.webhook
```

Format code:
```
$ black promargus
```

Lint:
```
$ flake8 promargus --max-line-length 88
```
